Security professionals are often
tasked with reviewing log files.
These files may have thousands of entries,
so it can be helpful to automate this
process, and that's where Python comes in.
Let's start by importing a simple text
file that just contains a few words and
then restoring it as a string in Python.
All we need is the text file, its
location, and the right Python keywords.
We're going to start by
typing a "with" statement.
The keyword with handles errors and
manages external resources.
When using with, Python knows to
automatically release resources that
would otherwise keep our system busy
until the program finishes running.
It's often used in file
handling to automatically
close a file after reading it.
To open files and then read them,
we write a statement that
begins with the keyword with.
Then, we use the open() function.
Open() is a function that
opens a file in Python.
The first parameter is the name of
the text file on your computer or
a link to it on the internet.
Depending on the Python environment,
you might also need to
include a path to this file.
Remember to include the .txt
extension in the file name.
Now let's discuss the second parameter.
This parameter in the open() function tells
Python what we want to do with the file.
In our case, we want to read a file, so we
use the letter "r" between quotation marks.
If we wanted to write to a file,
we would replace this "r" with a "w".
But here, we're focusing on reading.
Finally, file is a variable that contains
the file information as long as
we're inside the with statement.
Like with other types of statements, we
end our with statement with a colon.
The code that comes after the colon
will tell Python what to do with
the content of the file.
Let's go into Python and
use what we learned.
We're ready to open a text file in Python.
Now we'll type our with statement.
Next, we'll use Python's
built-in read method.
The read method converts
files into strings.
Now let's go back to our with statement.
Similar to a for loop, with statements
start an indent on the next line.
This tells Python that this code is
happening inside the with statement.
Inside of the statement, we're going
to use the read() function to turn
our file into a string and
store that inside a new variable.
This new variable can be used
outside of the with statement.
So let's exit the with statement
by removing the indentation and
print the variable.
Perfect! The string from
the text prints out.
Coming up,
we're going to discuss parsing files
so we are equipped to handle
security logs in the future.